Wireless Music Sync for BlackBerry&reg;
=======================================
Wireless Music Sync for BlackBerry keeps the music on your BlackBerry devices
in sync with your Desktop music library wirelessly. It presently works with
iTunes on Windows as the music source.

Wireless Music Sync for BlackBerry is still beta software is not suited for the
faint of heart. It is however fully functional and can handle day to day use.
If you have any comments, suggestions or issues contact the developer at
[nithin@nithinphilips.com](mailto:nithin@nithinphilips.com)

Getting Started
---------------
Before installing the Wireless Music Sync on your desktop, make sure you have
[.NET Framework 4.0](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/netframework/aa569263) and
[iTunes](https://www.apple.com/itunes/) installed. You should also add some of the
music you want to sync to iTunes.

The first step to setting up music sync is to install the server application on
your Windows PC. You can download the latest installer from the SourceForge project 
website: https://sourceforge.net/projects/bbwifimusicsync/

Once installed, the server application will start a webserver on port `9000` on your
computer. You can access the server you can access the server via the URL
http://localhost:9000/

To access this page from your BlackBerry phone, you will need to identify the
IP address of your computer. To do that, on Windows 7:

 1. Click on the **Start Menu**
 2. Open the **Control Panel**.
 3. Then navigate to the **Network and Internet** group. 
 4. Then, click on the **View network status and tasks** link. The **Network
    and Sharing Center** will open.
 5. Under the *View your active networks* section, look for the link that says,
    **Local Area Connection**, if you have wired network connection, or
    **Wireless Network Connection**, if you have wireless network connection.
    Click on it to open the Connection Status dialog.
 6. In the *Connection Status* dialog, click on the **Details...** button.
 7. Note the value next to the **IPv4 Address** property.

From your BlackBerry browser, enter `http://<your-ipv4-address>:9000/`,
replacing `<your-ipv4-address>` with your computer's IPv4 address.

From the welcome page, follow the link to install the BlackBerry app. You may
have to choose the version appropriate for your BlackBerry OS version.

Once the BlackBerry app in installed, you can start it. It will ask you enter
your computer's IP address and port. Enter the IP address from the earlier step
(without the `http://` part) and for the port value, enter `9000`.

Once the app is configured, you can choose the *Playlists*, *Albums* or
*Artists* you would like to sync to you phone.  After making your selection,
click on **Sync** from the menu to start syncing.

Late on, you can simply click **Sync** to receive updated playlists from the
computer.

Using the Desktop Sync Application
----------------------------------
While you can sync your music entirely using the BlackBerry app, if you are
transferring a large number of tracks, this process can take a prohibitively
long time. The Desktop Sync application can help in those situations.

 1. Connect your BlackBerry to the computer.
 2. When your BlackBerry asks to choose the connection mode, choose *USB
    Drive*.
 3. From the start menu, start **Wifi Music Sync Desktop Client**.
 4. From the *Where would you like to store your music?* dropdown, choose your
    BlackBerry device. (*It will usually have BlackBerry somewhere in the
    title*).
 5. The playlists you have already setup to have synced will be automatically
    checked.  Make any additional selections (or deselections) and click on
    **Sync**.
 6. You music will be copied to your phone.

You can mix the Desktop and the BlackBerry sync applications anytime. They both
follow the same procedures, and will not create any sync conflicts.

One notable difference in the Desktop application is that it currently only
syncs one way.  That is, the changes made on you phone playlists will not be
transferred to iTunes.

Additional Resources
---------------------
 * For Windows 7 users, there is a video instruction on how to [find your
   computer's IP address (Windows
   7)](http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/windows7/Find-your-computers-IP-address)
   at the Microsoft Website.
 * Windows Vista users, see: [Find your computer's IP address (Windows
   Vista)](http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/windows-vista/Find-your-computers-IP-address)

